---
layout: post
title: iOS Forms
---

Form interactions &ndash; on iOS devices &ndash; seem to be a routine concern expressed by clients. Let's look at a few examples and how we would go about fixing these UI issues: 

### Using The Semantically Appropriate Keyboard Type

You can access every kind of keyboard on iOS just by choosing the appropriate input type:
	
- `type="text"` for the default QWERTY keyboard

- `type="date"` for the date-picker 

- `type="time"` for the time-picker

- `type="email"` for the QWERTY email keyboard

-  `type="tel"` for the telephone keyboard

- `type="text" pattern="[0-9]*"` for the numeric keyboard

- `type="url"` for the QWERTY URL keyboard



On older versions of iOS these new input types will be replaced by a simple text input. However, you can use PhoneGap plugins to add support. This [great answer](http://stackoverflow.com/a/10857237/1365008) on stackoverflow covers some of the more esoteric issues. 


### Input Elements Covered By Keyboard

This becomes an issue when you have a fixed height page or the input element is near the end of the page. The usual scroll to focus behaviour no longer works since there isn't enough empty space.  


### Preventing Auto-Scroll When Focusing On An Input Element
{% highlight js %}
$(jQuery(document).ready( function ($) {
  $('input, select, textarea').focus( function () {
    this.style.webkitTransform = 'translate3d(0px,-10000px,0)';
    webkitRequestAnimationFrame( function() { 
      this.style.webkitTransform = ''; 
    }.bind(this) );
  });
}));
{% endhighlight %}

### Re-sizing/re-styling the page when the keyboard is visible/hidden


### Hide Input Accessory Toolbar

[KeyboardToolbarRemover](https://github.com/don/KeyboardToolbarRemover)

> The keyboard in an iOS web view has an InputAccessoryView with Previous, Next and Done buttons. This plugin allows the toolbar to be hidden.


<cite>&raquo; [Apple Developer: mobile user experience](https://developer.apple.com/library/safari/codinghowtos/Mobile/UserExperience/_index.html)</cite>